.\"
.TH "borgadm" "1" "" "borgadm" "borgadm manual"
.SH NAME
borgadm \- manage borg backup repositories and scheduled backups
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]borgadm\f[R] <command> ...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
borgadm is a wrapper around borgbackup designed to manage backup sets, where a set is a group of separate borg backups (archives) created with different create options.\&
It creates backups from the named sets, verifies repository and archive integrity, prunes old and partial archives by retention policy, and restores archives via extract or rsync.\&
A passphrase\- and SSH\-key\-based workflow handles authentication to local and remote repositories, and it can schedule unattended backups and checks through crony(1) on macOS (launchd) and Linux (systemd).\&
.PP
The sets are defined in the config file; each \(gacreate\(ga run writes one archive per set, named {BACKUP_NAME}\-{set_name}\-YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_NofM.\&
The NofM suffix records a set\(aqs position so a timestamp is \(dqfull\(dq only when every configured set is present and \(dqpartial\(dq otherwise.\&
The list, check, prune, and restore subcommands operate on these timestamps, and prune can also clean up partial or unrecognized (\(dqunknown\(dq) archives.\&
.PP
Configuration lives in \(ti/.borgadm, an INI\-style file naming the repository, the backup sets, retention counts, credential file paths, and check thresholds.\&
The \(gaautomate\(ga subcommand deploys borgadm\(aqs scheduled create and check jobs through crony(1) (launchd on macOS, systemd on Linux); \(gaenvironment\(ga prints the shell exports needed to run the borg CLI directly against the configured repository.\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
Generate a starter config at \(ti/.borgadm, then edit it to set at least BORG_REPO and your BACKUP_SETS (see CONFIGURATION):
.PP
.EX
    borgadm config init
.EE
.PP
Check the config parses and is complete before the first backup:
.PP
.EX
    borgadm config validate
.EE
.PP
To create a backup of every configured set and prune old archives run:
.PP
.EX
    borgadm create
.EE
.PP
To inspect what is in the repository and verify its integrity:
.PP
.EX
    borgadm list
    borgadm check full
.EE
.PP
To restore the latest full backup into a directory:
.PP
.EX
    borgadm extract /path/to/restore
.EE
.PP
To schedule unattended backups and checks via crony(1) run:
.PP
.EX
    borgadm automate apply
.EE
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.TP
\f[CR]archive\f[R]
A full archive name as shown by \f[CR]borgadm list\f[R], or a YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS timestamp standing for every archive at that time.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config CONFIG\f[R]
Path to the borgadm config file to read.\&
(default: \(ti/.borgadm)
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-dry\-run\f[R]
Report what the operation would do without changing anything.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-daily KEEP_DAILY\f[R]
Number of daily backups to keep, overriding the PRUNE_KEEP_DAILY config value for this run.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-hourly KEEP_HOURLY\f[R]
Number of hourly backups to keep, overriding the PRUNE_KEEP_HOURLY config value for this run.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-monthly KEEP_MONTHLY\f[R]
Number of monthly backups to keep, overriding the PRUNE_KEEP_MONTHLY config value for this run.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-weekly KEEP_WEEKLY\f[R]
Number of weekly backups to keep, overriding the PRUNE_KEEP_WEEKLY config value for this run.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-yearly KEEP_YEARLY\f[R]
Number of yearly backups to keep, overriding the PRUNE_KEEP_YEARLY config value for this run.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-latest\f[R]
Restrict the operation to the latest full backup set (the newest timestamp with every configured set present).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-progress\f[R]
Show borg\(aqs progress output while the operation runs.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-timestamp\-messages\f[R]
Prefix each stdout/stderr message with a timestamp.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-verbose\f[R]
Log informational messages, not just warnings.\&
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\f[B]automate apply\f[R] [\-\-config\-only] [\-\-include JOB] [\-\-exclude JOB] [\-\-rsync\-dir DIR] [\-\-rsync\-interval INTERVAL] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Write borgadm\(aqs crony(1) bundle and deploy the scheduled backup\-creation and check jobs (via launchd on macOS, systemd on Linux).\&
Passing neither \-\-include nor \-\-exclude reuses the bundle\(aqs recorded job selection.\&
The opt\-in rsync verify job is selected with \-\-include rsync.\&
On macOS the create job runs with Full Disk Access permissions.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only write the bundle file; skip running crony apply
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-include JOB\f[R]
keep only these jobs in the bundle (repeatable); cannot be combined with \-\-exclude
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-exclude JOB\f[R]
drop these jobs from the bundle (repeatable); cannot be combined with \-\-include
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-rsync\-dir DIR\f[R]
target directory for the rsync verify job (required with \-\-include rsync)
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-rsync\-interval INTERVAL\f[R]
override the rsync verify job\(aqs interval (default: 1d; only valid with \-\-include rsync)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]automate destroy\f[R] [\-\-config\-only] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Tear down borgadm\(aqs scheduled backup and check jobs and remove its crony(1) bundle.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only remove the bundle file; skip running crony destroy
.RE
.TP
\f[B]automate status\f[R] [\-\-config\-only] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Report whether the crony(1) bundle on disk is current, then query crony(1) for the deployed jobs\(aq status.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only check the bundle file; skip running crony status
.RE
.TP
\f[B]break\-lock\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Forcibly release a stale lock left on the repository by an interrupted borg run.\&
.TP
\f[B]check age\f[R] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages] [seconds]
Verify that the latest full backup is no older than the configured (or given) maximum age.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]seconds\f[R]
Maximum backup age, in seconds
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]check archives\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages] [\-\-latest | archive ...]\&
Verify archive metadata with borg check \-\-archives\-only, over the given archives, the latest full set (\-\-latest), or every archive in the repository.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]check prune\f[R] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Report any partial or unpruned archives left in the repository.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]check repo\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Verify repository metadata with borg check \-\-repository\-only.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]check full\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Verify both repository and archive metadata with a full borg check.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]compact\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Compact the repository to reclaim space left behind by deleted archives.\&
.TP
\f[B]config init\f[R] [\-\-force] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Write the shipped example config to \(ti/.borgadm, refusing to overwrite an existing file unless \-\-force is given.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-force\f[R]
Overwrite an existing config file
.RE
.TP
\f[B]config validate\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Load the config file (see \-\-config) and report whether it is structurally valid, listing any errors.\&
Does not connect to the repository.\&
.TP
\f[B]delete\f[R] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-progress] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages] (\-\-latest | archive)
Delete the given archive, or the latest full backup set (\-\-latest).\&
.TP
\f[B]create\f[R] [\-\-no\-prune] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-progress] [\-\-keep\-hourly KEEP_HOURLY] [\-\-keep\-daily KEEP_DAILY] [\-\-keep\-weekly KEEP_WEEKLY] [\-\-keep\-monthly KEEP_MONTHLY] [\-\-keep\-yearly KEEP_YEARLY] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Create a full backup, writing one archive per configured backup set, then prune old archives unless \-\-no\-prune is given.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-no\-prune\f[R]
Skip backup pruning
.RE
.TP
\f[B]extract\f[R] [\-\-delete] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-progress] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages] target_dir [patterns ...]\&
Extract the latest full backup into a target directory, optionally filtered by include/exclude patterns.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]target_dir\f[R]
Target directory for extracted backup
.TP
\f[CR]patterns\f[R]
include/exclude paths matching PATTERN, see \(aqborg help patterns\(aq for details
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-delete\f[R]
Delete files in destination not in backup
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]list\f[R] [\-\-latest] [\-\-full\-names] [\-\-keep\-tags | \-\-no\-keep\-tags] [\-\-keep\-hourly KEEP_HOURLY] [\-\-keep\-daily KEEP_DAILY] [\-\-keep\-weekly KEEP_WEEKLY] [\-\-keep\-monthly KEEP_MONTHLY] [\-\-keep\-yearly KEEP_YEARLY] [\-\-include\-partial | \-\-no\-include\-partial | \-\-only\-partial] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
List backups grouped by timestamp, distinguishing full from partial sets and showing prune keep tags.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-full\-names\f[R]
List full names of backups (instead of just timestamps)
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-keep\-tags, \-\-no\-keep\-tags\f[R]
Include keep tags (indicating what would be kept and deleted during a prune) (default: True)
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-include\-partial, \-\-no\-include\-partial\f[R]
Include partial backups (default: True)
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-only\-partial\f[R]
Only list partial
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]logs\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Print the borgadm log file paths, including those of any deployed automations.\&
.TP
\f[B]repair delete\-cache\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Delete the local borg cache for the repository, forcing it to be rebuilt on the next access.\&
.TP
\f[B]repair repo\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-yes] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Repair repository metadata with borg check \-\-repair \-\-repository\-only; requires \-\-yes.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-yes\f[R]
confirm you understand the risks of \-\-repair
.RE
.TP
\f[B]repair archives\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-yes] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Repair archive metadata with borg check \-\-repair \-\-archives\-only; requires \-\-yes.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-yes\f[R]
confirm you understand the risks of \-\-repair
.RE
.TP
\f[B]repair full\f[R] [\-\-progress] [\-\-yes] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Repair both repository and archive metadata with borg check \-\-repair; requires \-\-yes.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-yes\f[R]
confirm you understand the risks of \-\-repair
.RE
.TP
\f[B]prune\f[R] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-progress] [\-\-keep\-hourly KEEP_HOURLY] [\-\-keep\-daily KEEP_DAILY] [\-\-keep\-weekly KEEP_WEEKLY] [\-\-keep\-monthly KEEP_MONTHLY] [\-\-keep\-yearly KEEP_YEARLY] [\-\-cleanup\-unknown] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Prune partial and aged\-out archives according to the configured retention policy, optionally removing unknown archives.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-cleanup\-unknown\f[R]
Delete archives whose names start with the configured BACKUP_NAME prefix but don\(aqt match the expected {BACKUP_NAME}\-{set_name}\-YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_NofM shape.\&
Default: warn but leave in place.\&
Either way, an unknown archive in the repo causes list and prune to exit with the WARNING status.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]rsync\f[R] [\-\-delete] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-progress] [\-\-bypass\-lock] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages] target_dir
Mirror the contents of the latest archive to a target directory with rsync (Linux only).\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]target_dir\f[R]
Target directory for extracted backup
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-delete\f[R]
Delete files in destination not in backup
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-bypass\-lock\f[R]
skip waiting for any locks (faster, but may race a concurrent backup)
.RE
.TP
\f[B]environment\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-verbose] [\-\-timestamp\-messages]
Print the shell commands needed to run the borg CLI directly against the configured repository.\&
.SH AUTOMATION JOBS
.TP
\f[CR]create\f[R]
Hourly \(gaborgadm create\(ga: back up every configured set (one archive per set), then prune old archives by the configured retention policy.\&
.TP
\f[CR]check\-age\f[R]
Daily \(gaborgadm check age\(ga: verify the latest full backup is no older than the configured maximum age.\&
.TP
\f[CR]check\-prune\f[R]
Daily \(gaborgadm check prune\(ga: report any partial or unpruned archives left in the repository.\&
.TP
\f[CR]check\-full\f[R]
Weekly \(gaborgadm check full\(ga: verify repository and archive metadata with a full borg check.\&
.TP
\f[CR]rsync\f[R]
Daily \(gaborgadm rsync\(ga: mirror the latest backup set into \-\-rsync\-dir (with \-\-delete) to verify restores work.\&
Not deployed by default \-\- select with \(ga\-\-include rsync\(ga; the interval is customizable via \(ga\-\-rsync\-interval\(ga.\&
Linux only.\&
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_REPO\f[R]
Path or ssh URL of the borg repository to manage (required).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_REPO_HOSTKEY\f[R]
known_hosts entry for the remote repository host.\&
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_PASSPHRASE_FILE\f[R]
File holding the repository passphrase (default: \(ti/.borg_passphrase).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_SSHKEY_FILE\f[R]
SSH private key used to reach a remote repository (default: \(ti/.ssh/id_borg.net).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_REMOTE_PATH\f[R]
Path to the borg executable on the remote host.\&
.TP
\f[CR]BORG_CMD_TIMEOUT\f[R]
Timeout for borg commands, in seconds (default: 14400).\&
.TP
\f[CR]CMD_TIMEOUT\f[R]
Timeout for non\-borg commands, in seconds (default: 60).\&
.TP
\f[CR]LOCK_CHECK_TIMEOUT\f[R]
Seconds to wait probing whether a borg lock is held (default: 5).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BACKUP_NAME\f[R]
Prefix for archive names (default: home).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BACKUP_ROOT\f[R]
Directory \(gacreate\(ga runs from and that backup\-set paths are resolved against (default: \(ti).\&
.TP
\f[CR]CHECK_AGE_SECONDS\f[R]
Maximum age \(gacheck age\(ga tolerates for the latest full backup, in seconds (default: 86400).\&
.TP
\f[CR]PRUNE_KEEP_HOURLY\f[R]
Hourly archives \(gaprune\(ga retains (default: 24).\&
.TP
\f[CR]PRUNE_KEEP_DAILY\f[R]
Daily archives \(gaprune\(ga retains (default: 7).\&
.TP
\f[CR]PRUNE_KEEP_WEEKLY\f[R]
Weekly archives \(gaprune\(ga retains (default: 4).\&
.TP
\f[CR]PRUNE_KEEP_MONTHLY\f[R]
Monthly archives \(gaprune\(ga retains (default: 12).\&
.TP
\f[CR]PRUNE_KEEP_YEARLY\f[R]
Yearly archives \(gaprune\(ga retains (default: 2).\&
.TP
\f[CR]BACKUP_MOUNTS\f[R]
JSON list of paths (relative to BACKUP_ROOT) that must be mountpoints before \(gacreate\(ga proceeds.\&
.TP
\f[CR]BACKUP_SETS\f[R]
JSON object mapping each backup\-set name to its \(gapaths\(ga, optional \(gaexcludes\(ga, and optional \(gacreate_options\(ga; \(gacreate\(ga writes one archive per set (required).\&
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.borgadm\f[R]
INI\-style configuration file (see CONFIGURATION).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.borg_passphrase\f[R]
Default repository passphrase file (BORG_PASSPHRASE_FILE).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.ssh/id_borg.net\f[R]
Default SSH key for a remote repository (BORG_SSHKEY_FILE).\&
.TP
\f[CR]$TMPDIR/borgadm.log\f[R]
Run log written on every invocation.\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]1\f[R]
Warning
.TP
\f[CR]2\f[R]
Usage/argument error
.TP
\f[CR]3\f[R]
Configuration error
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]5\f[R]
Subprocess error
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
.TP
\f[CR]10\f[R]
Check failed: no full backups
.TP
\f[CR]11\f[R]
Check failed: backup too old
.TP
\f[CR]12\f[R]
Check failed: repo metadata
.TP
\f[CR]13\f[R]
Check failed: archive metadata
.TP
\f[CR]14\f[R]
Check failed: unpruned archives
.TP
\f[CR]15\f[R]
Check failed: full repo + archives
