.\"
.TH "crony" "1" "" "crony" "crony manual"
.SH NAME
crony \- user\-level scheduled\-job manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]crony\f[R] <command> ...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
Crony is a multi\-platform user\-level scheduled\-job manager.\&
It supports jobs on macOS/darwin (via launchd) and linux (via systemd).\&
It reads one or more TOML config bundles and can deploy the corresponding platform units.\&
It runs jobs through a uniform shim, which provides consistent logging, execution gates, timeouts, environment management, etc.\&
Jobs can be grouped, and groups or jobs run on a schedule.\&
Jobs can also be managed manually (enabled/disabled independently of the underlying scheduler, and run at will via the \(gatrigger\(ga subcommand).\&
Crony supports the following notification mechanisms for job failures: email/smtp, ntfy, and pop\-ups (on macOS/darwin).\&
.PP
Subcommands fall into categories:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 2
configuration (\(gaconfig\(ga): manage config files
.IP \(bu 2
deployment (\(gaapply\(ga, \(gadestroy\(ga): deploy configured jobs
.IP \(bu 2
runtime state (\(gaenable\(ga, \(gadisable\(ga): manage scheduler arming
.IP \(bu 2
operational (\(gastatus\(ga, \(galogs\(ga, \(gatrigger\(ga): manage deployed jobs
.PD
.PP
Configuration is managed via bundles:
.PD 0
.IP \(bu 2
\(ga\(ti/.config/crony/config.toml\(ga \-> bundle name \(dqdefault\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
\(ga\(ti/.config/crony/config/<x>.toml\(ga \-> bundle name \(dq<x>\(dq
.PD
.PP
Bundles are independent.\&
Job and group names are namespaced as <bundle>.<name>; bare CLI input (\(gacrony trigger foo\(ga) is shorthand for \(gadefault.foo\(ga.\&
The \(ga\-b/\-\-bundle <name>\(ga flag on various subcommands scopes name resolution to that bundle.\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
To use crony, start by generating a crony config file with \(gacrony config init\(ga.\&
Then edit the config file to define jobs and notification mechanisms.\&
You can validate the config file with \(gacrony config validate\(ga.\&
Internally, crony tracks jobs via UUIDs, so every job needs one.\&
You can auto\-assign UUIDs in a config file with \(gacrony config update\(ga (or generate one with \(gacrony config generate\-uuid\(ga and add it manually).\&
.PP
Once a crony config exists you can inspect defined and deployed jobs (and their execution status) with \(gacrony status\(ga.\&
To deploy configured jobs run \(gacrony apply\(ga.\&
If you change the configuration for a deployed job, \(gacrony status\(ga will report that the job is \(gastale\(ga and you can update the deployed configuration by running \(gacrony apply\(ga again.\&
To see execution logs (file path, content, etc.)\&
for a job use \(gacrony logs\(ga.\&
To manually trigger a job run use \(gacrony trigger\(ga.\&
To disable a job (without destroying it), use \(gacrony disable\(ga (you can subsequently re\-enable it with \(gacrony enable\(ga).\&
To remove deployed jobs run \(gacrony destroy\(ga.\&
(Destroying jobs removes all previous job state: log files, last run information, etc.)\&
.SH PLATFORM SPECIFICS
On systemd\-based platforms, for scheduled jobs to execute when a user is not logged in, \(dqlinger\(dq must be enabled.\&
Enabling linger requires sudo access and can be done via the following command: \(gasudo loginctl enable\-linger $USER\(ga.\&
The \(gacrony status\(ga and \(gacrony config validate\(ga commands will check if systemd linger is enabled, and if not will emit a warning asking the user to enable it.\&
While linger is disabled, a scheduled job whose time arrives while the user is logged out will not run then; instead it runs immediately the next time the user logs in.\&
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.TP
\f[CR]job\f[R]
A job (or group) identity: the full namespaced name \f[CR]<bundle>.<name>\f[R], or the \f[CR]<bundle>:<uuid>\f[R] form for an entry with no recoverable name.\&
A bare \f[CR]name\f[R] is shorthand for \f[CR]default.<name>\f[R].\&
Subcommands that accept more than one take a space\-separated list (shown as \f[CR][job ...]\f[R]).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-all\f[R]
Act on every entry instead of an explicit name list.\&
Scope to one bundle with \-b/\-\-bundle.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-b, \-\-bundle BUNDLE\f[R]
Operate on config bundle BUNDLE.\&
Where the subcommand takes names, bare names resolve within BUNDLE and a qualified name must match it.\&
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\f[B]config init\f[R] [\-\-force] [\-b BUNDLE]
Generate a default config file.\&
With \-\-bundle, write config/<bundle>.toml instead of config.toml.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-force\f[R]
Overwrite an existing config file.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]config validate\f[R] [\-b BUNDLE | \-\-file PATH]
Lint config; report orphans, linger, etc.\&
With \-\-bundle, cross\-host checks (orphans, linger) are skipped.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-file PATH\f[R]
Structurally validate a single TOML file as a bundle (named after its stem, or \(aqdefault\(aq for the installed config.toml), independent of the config dir.\&
Exits non\-zero on any error.\&
Lets a tool pre\-flight a bundle.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]config update\f[R] [\-b BUNDLE]
Assign UUIDs to jobs and groups that lack one.\&
Without \-\-bundle every bundle file is scanned; with it, only that bundle\(aqs file.\&
.TP
\f[B]config generate\-uuid\f[R]
Print one freshly\-minted UUID.\&
.TP
\f[B]apply\f[R] [\-v] [\-b BUNDLE] [job ...]\&
Render and activate platform units to match config.\&
With no job arguments this is a full sync (install missing, fix drift, remove orphans); with names it surgically updates just those entries.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-v, \-\-verbose\f[R]
Also print \(aqunchanged\(aq lines.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]destroy\f[R] [\-\-all] [\-\-orphans] [\-b BUNDLE] [job ...]\&
Remove platform units \-\- the platform unit files and the entry\(aqs state dir both go away.\&
Requires a target: job(s), \-\-all, or \-\-orphans.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-orphans\f[R]
Limit removal to entries with on\-disk remnants that no config selects on this host.\&
Combinable with \-b/\-\-bundle; mutually exclusive with positional names and \-\-all.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]enable\f[R] [\-\-all] [\-b BUNDLE] [job ...]\&
Re\-arm the named jobs\(aq schedules (clear the operator\-disable).\&
Requires a target: job(s) or \-\-all.\&
.TP
\f[B]disable\f[R] [\-\-all] [\-b BUNDLE] [job ...]\&
Disarm the named jobs\(aq schedules: loaded and triggerable, but not firing on their own.\&
Requires a target: job(s) or \-\-all.\&
.TP
\f[B]trigger\f[R] [\-\-all] [\-b BUNDLE] [\-w] [\-\-trigger\-timeout TRIGGER_TIMEOUT] [job ...]\&
Ask the platform scheduler to fire the named jobs now, via the same path a scheduled fire uses.\&
Requires a target: job(s) or \-\-all.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-w, \-\-wait\f[R]
Block until each named entry\(aqs next completion and exit with that exit code (worst across multiple names).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-trigger\-timeout TRIGGER_TIMEOUT\f[R]
Override [defaults].trigger_timeout_sec (seconds to wait for a runner to come online after kickstart).\&
Only meaningful with \-\-wait.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]status\f[R] [\-a] [\-\-cols COLS] [\-b BUNDLE] [\-\-config\-current | \-\-config\-pending] [\-\-exclude\-healthy] [job ...]\&
Print resolved state per job.\&
With no job arguments every job is shown; pass job names to restrict the table.\&
Many columns are source\-selected \-\- they show the pending (config) value by default, or the applied value under \-\-config\-current \-\- and a trailing \(ga\(ha\(ga on a value marks a divergence between the two.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-a, \-\-all\f[R]
List all defined entries, including ones masked on the current host.\&
Entries can be masked because they are unused or associated with a different platform and/or host.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-cols COLS\f[R]
Comma\-separated columns to display.\&
See the Status Columns reference for valid names, aliases, and descriptions.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-current\f[R]
For dual\-source columns (name, schedule, groups, ...), show the currently\-active (applied) value.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-pending\f[R]
For dual\-source columns (name, schedule, groups, ...), show the pending value from the config (the default).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-exclude\-healthy\f[R]
Drop rows that are config=synced, enabled in the scheduler, and last in ok/never/gated.\&
Output is flat (no tree indent).\&
Always exits 0 \-\- this is a filter on the display, not a gate.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]logs\f[R] [\-n N] [\-s SINCE] [\-t | \-l] [\-p] job
Print a job\(aqs recent log output.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-n N\f[R]
Print the last N lines (default: 200, or 10 with \-\-tail).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-s, \-\-since SINCE\f[R]
\(dq1h\(dq, \(dq2d\(dq, or ISO timestamp.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-t, \-\-tail\f[R]
Follow appended output.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-l, \-\-latest\f[R]
Print only the latest run\(aqs entry.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-p, \-\-path\f[R]
Print the log file path and exit (no content).\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]notify\-test\f[R] [\-\-channel CHANNEL] [\-b BUNDLE]
Send a synthetic failure notification.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-channel CHANNEL\f[R]
Send through one specific channel.\&
Bare name (\(gantfy\(ga) resolves against the selected bundle; fully qualified \(ga<bundle>.<channel>\(ga overrides \-\-bundle.\&
.RE
.SH STATUS COLUMNS
.SS Default Columns
.TP
\f[I]job\-or\-uuid\f[R]
Normally the full job name \(ga<bundle>.<short>\(ga, but in the case of a job naming conflict or a broken job with no recoverable name this column may report \(ga<bundle>:<UUID>\(ga.\&
.TP
\f[I]config\f[R]
See \(dqCONFIG values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]schedule\f[R]
See \(dqSCHEDULE values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]status\f[R]
See \(dqSTATUS values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]last\-ran\f[R]
Relative time of the last job run, e.g.\&
\(dq5m ago\(dq.\&
.SS Optional Columns
.TP
\f[I]<flag>\f[R]
One opt\-in true/false column per capability flag (\(ga\-\-cols interactive\(ga, etc.).\&
Request by name; the \(gaall\(ga alias omits these in favor of the compact \(gaflags\(ga column.\&
See \(dqFLAG values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]flags\f[R]
Comma\-separated list of capability flags enabled for the job.\&
See \(dqFLAG values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]groups\f[R]
Comma\-separated list of job groups containing this job.\&
A job can only have one unmasked parent, but can have multiple masked parents.\&
Empty when the job isn\(aqt part of any group.\&
.TP
\f[I]job\f[R]
Full job name: \(ga<bundle>.<short>\(ga.\&
This name may not be usable with subcommands if a pending configuration update will assign this name to a new job, in which case you can use the \(ga<bundle>:<UUID>\(ga name to directly address this job.\&
May be empty for a broken job with no recoverable name.\&
.TP
\f[I]kind\f[R]
Job type: \(dqjob\(dq or \(dqgroup\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]log\-file\f[R]
Filesystem path of the job\(aqs log file.\&
.TP
\f[I]masked\-by\f[R]
A comma\-separated list of reasons why a job is masked (CONFIG = masked) on the current host.\&
See \(dqMASKED values\(dq.\&
.TP
\f[I]priority\f[R]
Job scheduling priority: high | normal | low.\&
Empty for groups.\&
.TP
\f[I]stale\f[R]
A comma\-separated list of the snapshot fields that have diverged between the pending config and the applied unit (CONFIG = stale).\&
Each is named the way that field is known \-\- the config\-file knob, a capability flag, a status column, or its dash\-spelled snapshot attribute.\&
.TP
\f[I]timeout\f[R]
Job wallclock cap: \(ga<n>s\(ga.\&
The job will be killed if its wallclock execution time exceeds this cap.\&
May be \(ganone\(ga for uncapped jobs.\&
.TP
\f[I]unit\-config\f[R]
Filesystem path of the platform config unit.\&
Empty when no config unit exists on disk.\&
.TP
\f[I]unit\-name\f[R]
Platform unit identifier.\&
.TP
\f[I]unit\-timer\f[R]
Filesystem path of the platform timer unit.\&
Empty for an unscheduled / grouped job.\&
Only used by systemd, and always empty on macOS/darwin.\&
.TP
\f[I]uuid\f[R]
The job\(aqs \(ga<bundle>:<UUID>\(ga name.\&
.SS Column Aliases
.TP
\f[I]default\f[R]
The columns shown when \(ga\-\-cols\(ga is omitted: job\-or\-uuid, config, schedule, status, last\-ran.\&
.TP
\f[I]all\f[R]
Every column except the per\-flag columns (use the compact \(gaflags\(ga instead), \(gamasked\-by\(ga (kept only when a masked entry is present), and \-\- on macOS \-\- \(gaunit\-timer\(ga (launchd has no timer file).\&
Naming an excluded column explicitly still shows it.\&
.TP
\f[I]unit\-files\f[R]
unit\-config, plus unit\-timer on Linux.\&
.SS CONFIG values
.TP
\f[I]synced\f[R]
A deployed job\(aqs configuration is up\-to\-date.\&
.TP
\f[I]stale\f[R]
A deployed job\(aqs configuration has diverged from its configuration file definition, but the job is still runnable.\&
Run \(gaapply\(ga to update the deployed configuration.\&
.TP
\f[I]broken\f[R]
A deployed job\(aqs configuration is broken and un\-runnable.\&
Run \(gaapply\(ga to fix the deployed configuration.\&
.TP
\f[I]missing\f[R]
A job exists in the config file but has not yet been deployed.\&
.TP
\f[I]orphan\f[R]
A deployed job (or some job\-related resource) is not defined in any configuration file.\&
Run \(gadestroy \-\-orphans\(ga to clean up the deployed configuration.\&
.TP
\f[I]masked\f[R]
A job can\(aqt be deployed on the current host due to configuration filters (usually a mismatched \(gaplatform\(ga or \(gahost\(ga directive).\&
.TP
\f[I]error\f[R]
The job configuration file definition (i.e.\&
the pending or requested configuration) is broken, or its dependencies can\(aqt be met (e.g.\&
full\-disk\-access has been requested on macOS/darwin, but the Crony.app wrapper doesn\(aqt have full\-disk\-access).\&
If the job was previously deployed, it will continue to run and can be managed, but the deployed configuration can\(aqt be updated with \(gaapply\(ga until the pending configuration issue is fixed.\&
.SS SCHEDULE values
.TP
\f[I]OnCalendar schedule\f[R]
A (restricted) systemd OnCalendar schedule for job execution.\&
.TP
\f[I]interval=<x>\f[R]
A systemd time\-span interval for job execution.\&
.TP
\f[I]grouped\f[R]
A job/group with no schedule of its own, it runs when triggered by a parent job group.\&
.TP
\f[I]disabled\f[R]
A job that has been disabled via the \(gadisable\(ga subcommand; it will not be run via any schedule.\&
It can be run manually via the \(gatrigger\(ga subcommand, and re\-enabled via the \(gaenable\(ga subcommand.\&
.SS STATUS values
.TP
\f[I]ok\f[R]
The job\(aqs last run completed successfully.\&
.TP
\f[I]fail\f[R]
The job\(aqs last run failed (exited with a non\-zero status).\&
.TP
\f[I]timeout\f[R]
The job was killed after exceeding its wallclock execution timeout.\&
.TP
\f[I]gated\f[R]
The job was skipped due to an execution gate.\&
This is not considered as a job failure.\&
.TP
\f[I]canceled\f[R]
An interactive job run that was canceled / skipped by the user.\&
.TP
\f[I]crashed\f[R]
The scheduler failed to launch a job, or the job was killed/crashed before it could save its exit status to disk.\&
.TP
\f[I]running\f[R]
The job is currently running.\&
.TP
\f[I]pending\f[R]
An interactive job is either waiting for an active user, or waiting for that user to confirm execution (via a pop\-up dialog).\&
.TP
\f[I]never\f[R]
A newly deployed job that hasn\(aqt been run yet.\&
.TP
\f[I]unknown\f[R]
We\(aqre unable to determine the job status.\&
.SS FLAG values
.TP
\f[I]interactive\f[R]
macOS/Darwin only.\&
Delay job execution until an active user is detected, and then request the user to confirm execution of the job via a pop\-up.\&
.TP
\f[I]keep\-awake\f[R]
Prevent the system from sleeping while the job is executing.\&
.TP
\f[I]full\-disk\-access\f[R]
macOS/Darwin only.\&
Execute the job with TCC Full Disk Access permissions.\&
.SS MASKED values
.TP
\f[I]host\f[R]
The job has been scoped to a different host.\&
.TP
\f[I]platform\f[R]
The job has been scoped to a different platform.\&
.TP
\f[I]unused\f[R]
The job is not scheduled to run (directly or via a job group).\&
.TP
\f[I]empty\f[R]
The job group doesn\(aqt contain any unmasked jobs.\&
.SS Colors
On a color\-capable TTY (and NO_COLOR unset) some cells are colored; redirected or piped output is plain, where drift shows as a trailing \(ga\(ha\(ga plus a footnote legend instead.\&
.TP
\f[I]red\f[R]
CONFIG broken / error / missing / orphan; STATUS canceled / crashed / fail / timeout; SCHEDULE disabled.\&
.TP
\f[I]yellow\f[R]
CONFIG stale, plus any cell that diverged from the applied state (on a color stream its \(ga\(ha\(ga marker is dropped in favor of the color).\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]1\f[R]
Warning
.TP
\f[CR]2\f[R]
Usage/argument error
.TP
\f[CR]3\f[R]
Configuration error
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]5\f[R]
Subprocess error
.TP
\f[CR]6\f[R]
Operation timed out
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
