.\"
.TH "darwin\-tz\-watchdog" "1" "" "darwin\-tz\-watchdog" "darwin\-tz\-watchdog manual"
.SH NAME
darwin\-tz\-watchdog \- restart macOS UserEventAgent\-Aqua on a stale timezone
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]darwin\-tz\-watchdog\f[R] [\-v] [\-\-dry\-run]
.SH DESCRIPTION
darwin\-tz\-watchdog restarts macOS UserEventAgent\-Aqua when its cached timezone has gone stale.\&
UserEventAgent\-Aqua dispatches user\-level launchd StartCalendarInterval triggers, but it reads the timezone once at startup and never re\-reads it when /etc/localtime changes.\&
After a timezone switch (e.g.\&
travel) calendar\-interval jobs keep firing against the stale cached zone \-\- a job set for 02:30 local fires at 02:30 in the previously cached zone, potentially hours off \-\- until the agent is restarted.\&
This watchdog detects that condition and restarts the agent so it picks up the current zone.\&
.PP
It compares the mtime of the /etc/localtime symlink (bumped whenever the system timezone changes) against UserEventAgent\-Aqua\(aqs start time; if the timezone link is newer the agent is stale and is restarted by signaling the process this user owns, which launchd then respawns against the current zone.\&
With nothing stale to act on it exits silently, so it is cheap to run periodically from a scheduler.\&
Use \-\-dry\-run to report what would happen without touching the agent, and \-v to print the decision inputs (pid, times, staleness).\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
Schedule darwin\-tz\-watchdog with crony(1) so it runs automatically \-\- e.g.\&
a daily, darwin\-only job:
.PP
.EX
    mkdir \-p \(ti/.config/crony/config/
    cat > \(ti/.config/crony/config/darwin\-tz\-watchdog.toml <<\-EOF
    [defaults]
    notify\-channels = [\(dqdefault\(dq]

    [job.doit]
    command   = \(dqdarwin\-tz\-watchdog\(dq
    env.PATH  = \(dq\(rs$PATH:\(rs$HOME/.local/bin\(dq
    interval = \(dq1d\(dq
    platforms = [\(dqdarwin\(dq]
    uuid = \(dq$(crony config generate\-uuid)\(dq
    EOF
    crony apply \-b darwin\-tz\-watchdog
.EE
.SH PLATFORM SPECIFICS
darwin\-tz\-watchdog targets a macOS\-only bug, so it does real work only on macOS/darwin.\&
On every other platform it still parses its arguments (so \-\-help behaves identically everywhere) and then exits successfully without doing anything, which lets a cross\-platform scheduler invoke it unconditionally.\&
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f[CR]\-v, \-\-verbose\f[R]
Print decision diagnostics (pid, times, staleness).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-dry\-run\f[R]
Report what would happen without signaling the agent.\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
