.\"
.TH "firefox\-cookies" "1" "" "firefox\-cookies" "firefox\-cookies manual"
.SH NAME
firefox\-cookies \- extract cookies from a Firefox profile
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]firefox\-cookies\f[R] {list,list\-domains,list\-profiles,list\-containers} ...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
firefox\-cookies extracts cookies from a Firefox profile and writes them to stdout in Netscape or JSON format.\&
It reads both the on\-disk cookie database (cookies.sqlite) and the session\-store backup (recovery.jsonlz4), so the session cookies Firefox keeps only in memory are included alongside the persisted ones.\&
Cookies can be filtered by domain and by container, and the profile is auto\-detected or selected by name or path.\&
.PP
Firefox organizes cookies in a three\-level hierarchy.\&
A profile is a self\-contained browser instance with its own cookies, history, and settings; most installs have a single profile, but Firefox supports many (they are indexed in profiles.ini and listed by list\-profiles).\&
Within a profile, containers are optional isolated cookie jars: the same site can keep separate cookies in, say, a Work and a Personal container.\&
Containers are off until enabled \-\- typically through the Multi\-Account Containers extension \-\- and without them every cookie lives in the default context, container ID 0.\&
Domains are the individual hosts that have set cookies inside a given profile and container.\&
list\-containers and list\-domains summarize what a profile holds at each level.\&
.PP
With no \-\-profile, the default profile is chosen the same way Firefox itself chooses one: the profile that profiles.ini\(aqs install section marks as the default, falling back to a profile\(aqs own default flag, and finally to the first profile listed when none is marked.\&
Selection is keyed off that marker, not the profile\(aqs name \-\- the default is usually a random\-suffixed name such as 8f3k2a1b.default\-release, not literally \(dqdefault\(dq.\&
Pass \-\-profile to override with a profile name (matched case\-insensitively) or a filesystem path to a profile directory.\&
.PP
Because Firefox locks cookies.sqlite while it is running, the database is copied to a temporary location before it is read, so cookies can be extracted without closing the browser.\&
In a whole\-profile dump (no \-\-container), a cookie present in several containers is emitted once \-\- the default\-context copy, or the one from the lowest container ID when no default\-context copy exists \-\- and the dropped containers are reported.\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
Dump all cookies from the default profile (in Netscape format):
.PP
.EX
    firefox\-cookies list
.EE
.PP
List the available profiles:
.PP
.EX
    firefox\-cookies list\-profiles
.EE
.PP
List the containers in use by the default profile:
.PP
.EX
    firefox\-cookies list\-containers
.EE
.PP
Extract the trainingpeaks.com login authentication cookie (Production_tpAuth), from the TrainingPeaks container, in the default profile:
.PP
.EX
    firefox\-cookies list \-c TrainingPeaks \-d trainingpeaks.com \(rs
        Production_tpAuth
.EE
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-no\-header\f[R]
Omit the column header row.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-c, \-\-container CONTAINER\f[R]
Container ID, or name (case\-insensitive; an exact name wins, otherwise a unique substring match).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-d, \-\-domain DOMAINS\f[R]
Filter by domain; matches the domain and its subdomains (repeatable).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-p, \-\-profile PROFILE\f[R]
Profile name (case\-insensitive) or path to a profile directory (default: auto\-detect).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-s, \-\-source {db,recovery}\f[R]
Which cookie stores to read; repeatable (default: both).\&
\f[CR]db\f[R] reads the persistent on\-disk database \-\- the cookies Firefox has already written to disk.\&
\f[CR]recovery\f[R] reads the session\-store backup, which holds the session cookies Firefox keeps only in memory for the current session.\&
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\f[B]list\f[R] [\-p PROFILE] [\-c CONTAINER] [\-d DOMAINS] [\-s {db,recovery}] [\-\-format {netscape,json}] [NAME]
Extract cookies from the resolved profile and write them to stdout.\&
The default Netscape format emits a commented header followed by one tab\-separated row per cookie, with the columns host, subdomain flag, path, secure flag, expiry, name, and value.\&
The JSON format (\-\-format json) emits an array of cookie objects with host, name, value, path, expiry, and secure, plus httpOnly and sameSite.\&
An optional NAME positional keeps only cookies whose name matches it: a case\-insensitive exact match if any name equals NAME, otherwise every name containing NAME.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-format {netscape,json}\f[R]
Output format.\&
.TP
\f[CR]NAME\f[R]
Optional cookie name to filter by (case\-insensitive: an exact name wins, otherwise every name containing NAME).\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]list\-domains\f[R] [\-p PROFILE] [\-c CONTAINER] [\-s {db,recovery}] [\-\-no\-header]
List the domains that have cookies in the resolved profile, one per line.\&
The columns are: cookie\-count, container\-id, and domain, sorted by domain.\&
container\-id 0 is the default (no\-container) context.\&
.TP
\f[B]list\-profiles\f[R] [\-\-no\-header]
List the Firefox profiles found in profiles.ini, one per line.\&
The columns are: default, name, and path.\&
The default column holds a * on the profile profiles.ini marks as the default.\&
.TP
\f[B]list\-containers\f[R] [\-p PROFILE] [\-s {db,recovery}] [\-\-no\-header]
List the containers defined in the resolved profile, one per line.\&
The columns are: cookie\-count, container\-id, and container\-name, sorted by container\-name.\&
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[CR]<profile>/cookies.sqlite\f[R]
The profile\(aqs persistent cookie database (the \(gadb\(ga source).\&
Copied to a temporary location before reading, so it can be queried while Firefox is running.\&
.TP
\f[CR]<profile>/sessionstore\-backups/recovery.jsonlz4\f[R]
The Session Restore backup (mozlz4\-compressed).\&
Holds the session cookies Firefox keeps only in memory (the \(garecovery\(ga source).\&
.TP
\f[CR]<profile>/containers.json\f[R]
The profile\(aqs container definitions, used to resolve container names and IDs.\&
.TP
\f[CR]<firefox\-dir>/profiles.ini\f[R]
The profile index, read to locate and resolve profiles.\&
<firefox\-dir> is \(ti/Library/Application Support/Firefox on macOS and \(ti/.mozilla/firefox on Linux.\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]1\f[R]
Warning
.TP
\f[CR]2\f[R]
Usage/argument error
.TP
\f[CR]3\f[R]
Configuration error
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]5\f[R]
Subprocess error
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
