.\"
.TH "linkfiles" "1" "" "linkfiles" "linkfiles manual"
.SH NAME
linkfiles \- symlink a source directory\(aqs contents into a target
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]linkfiles\f[R] <command> ...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
linkfiles symlinks the contents of a source directory tree into a target directory, recreating the tree there.\&
Installations are tracked, so later runs can add new links, audit existing ones, and clean up dangling links.\&
While linkfiles can be used to link files from any source to any destination, its primary purpose is linking repository files into $HOME/ (as dotfiles) and $HOME/.local/.\&
.PP
By default linkfiles descends into the source and links the leaf files, recreating any subdirectories in the target; \-\-no\-recurse links each top\-level entry directly instead.\&
\-\-dotfiles dot\-prefixes each top\-level entry in the target (\(gabashrc\(ga becomes \(ga.bashrc\(ga).\&
A source entry whose top\-level name begins with a dot (like .git or .github) is skipped, though dot\-names below the top level are linked as ordinary content.\&
Files matched by an ignore file (.gitignore, .hgignore, or .linkfiles.ignore, in or above the source) are skipped, as are editor backup and swap files.\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
To install files from repos in your $HOME you can do:
.PP
.EX
    linkfiles install \-\-dotfiles .../files $HOME/
    linkfiles install .../bin $HOME/.local/bin
    linkfiles install .../share $HOME/.local/share
.EE
.PP
To update already installed link trees after the source directories are updated run:
.PP
.EX
    linkfiles install
.EE
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-dry\-run\f[R]
Show what would be done without making changes.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-v, \-\-verbose\f[R]
Print every entry; default suppresses ok lines.\&
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\f[B]install\f[R] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-f] [\-v] [\-\-dotfiles] [\-\-no\-recurse] [source_dir] [target_dir]
Link the contents of source_dir into target_dir, recording the install and its flags so it can be audited and removed later.\&
To install links from a new directory, both source_dir and target_dir are required.\&
If neither are specified, re\-sync all previously installed directories.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-f, \-\-force\f[R]
Replace conflicting symlinks (not files).\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-dotfiles\f[R]
Dot\-prefix each top\-level entry under the target.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-no\-recurse\f[R]
Link only top\-level entries; do not descend.\&
.TP
\f[CR]source_dir\f[R]
Source directory to install entries from.\&
.TP
\f[CR]target_dir\f[R]
Target directory to link the source\(aqs entries into.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]remove\f[R] [\-\-all] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-v] [source_dir] [target_dir]
Remove the links of one tracked install \-\- identified by its source_dir and target_dir, required together \-\- and untrack it.\&
Pass \-\-all instead to remove every tracked install.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-all\f[R]
Remove every tracked install (instead of one source/target).\&
.TP
\f[CR]source_dir\f[R]
Source directory whose entries should be removed.\&
.TP
\f[CR]target_dir\f[R]
Target directory the install was linked into.\&
.RE
.TP
\f[B]audit\f[R] [\-v]
Report the status of every tracked install; exits non\-zero on conflicts, missing entries, or stale managed links.\&
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.linkfiles.installed\f[R]
Tracks installed directory pairs (source + target) and installation options.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.linkfiles.linked\f[R]
Tracks installed links (source + target pairs).\&
.TP
\f[CR]$REPO/.linkfiles.ignore\f[R]
A file containing gitignore style patterns used to specify repo files that should be ignored by linkfiles.\&
Used when source_dir is $REPO or a child of $REPO.\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]1\f[R]
Warning
.TP
\f[CR]2\f[R]
Usage/argument error
.TP
\f[CR]3\f[R]
Configuration error
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]5\f[R]
Subprocess error
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
.TP
\f[CR]10\f[R]
Conflicts or missing entries
