.\"
.TH "secure\-archiver" "1" "" "secure\-archiver" "secure\-archiver manual"
.SH NAME
secure\-archiver \- build encrypted 7z archives keyed by 1Password passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f[B]secure\-archiver\f[R] <command> ...\&
.SH DESCRIPTION
secure\-archiver builds 7z encrypted archives from a TOML config, bundling local files and secrets fetched from 1Password into each archive and encrypting it with a password read from 1Password.\&
Each archive is timestamped and paired with a plaintext readme describing how to open it, and old revisions are pruned to a configurable count.\&
The 1Password CLI (\(gaop\(ga) and the 7\-Zip CLI (\(ga7zz\(ga) must be on PATH.\&
.PP
Each archive is defined by an [archive.NAME] section in the config (see the example config written by \(gaconfig init\(ga).\&
On every run it stages an archive\(aqs files into a temporary directory, computes a SHA256 manifest of the contents, and publishes a new revision only when the contents changed since the latest existing archive \-\- unless \-\-force\-update forces a write.\&
All archives produced by a single run share one timestamp.\&
The \(gaautomate\(ga subcommand schedules a weekly run through crony(1) (launchd on macOS, systemd on Linux).\&
.SH GETTING STARTED
To get started, write a sample config, edit it to point at your files and 1Password references, then create archives from it:
.PP
.EX
    secure\-archiver config init ./secure\-archiver.toml
    secure\-archiver config validate
    secure\-archiver create
.EE
.PP
To schedule a weekly run through crony(1), deploy the automation bundle:
.PP
.EX
    secure\-archiver automate apply
.EE
.PP
On macOS the scheduled job runs interactively \-\- crony holds each run until you are present and confirm it, so the 1Password vault\-access prompts never fire unattended.\&
On Linux crony has no interactive support, so the job runs unattended: your \(gaop\(ga must be usable without an interactive unlock (e.g.\&
a service\-account token).\&
The automate status and automate destroy subcommands inspect and tear down the schedule.\&
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config CONFIG\f[R]
Path to the config TOML.\&
When omitted, secure\-archiver searches ./secure\-archiver.toml, then \(ti/.secure\-archiver.toml.\&
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\f[B]create\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-force\-update]
Build the archives defined in the config, publishing a new timestamped revision of each archive whose contents changed (or all of them with \-\-force\-update) and pruning old revisions.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-dry\-run\f[R]
Do all work but never modify output directory
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-force\-update\f[R]
Publish even if archive contents are unchanged
.RE
.TP
\f[B]config init\f[R] output_file
Write a commented example config to output_file, which must not already exist.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]output_file\f[R]
Path to write the example config
.RE
.TP
\f[B]config validate\f[R] [\-\-config CONFIG]
Load and validate the config file, reporting the resolved path on success and the validation errors on failure.\&
.TP
\f[B]automate apply\f[R] [\-\-config\-only]
Write secure\-archiver\(aqs crony(1) bundle and deploy the scheduled create job (via launchd on macOS, systemd on Linux).\&
On macOS the job runs interactively so the 1Password prompts reach you when a run starts.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only write the bundle file; skip crony apply
.RE
.TP
\f[B]automate status\f[R] [\-\-config\-only]
Report whether the crony(1) bundle on disk is current, then query crony(1) for the deployed job\(aqs status.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only check the bundle file; skip crony status
.RE
.TP
\f[B]automate destroy\f[R] [\-\-config\-only]
Tear down secure\-archiver\(aqs scheduled create job and remove its crony(1) bundle.\&
.RS
.TP
\f[CR]\-\-config\-only\f[R]
only remove the bundle file; skip crony destroy
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[CR]./secure\-archiver.toml\f[R]
Config file used when \-\-config is omitted and present in the current directory.\&
.TP
\f[CR]\(ti/.secure\-archiver.toml\f[R]
Config file used when \-\-config is omitted and no secure\-archiver.toml exists in the current directory.\&
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
.TP
\f[CR]0\f[R]
Success
.TP
\f[CR]1\f[R]
Warning
.TP
\f[CR]2\f[R]
Usage/argument error
.TP
\f[CR]3\f[R]
Configuration error
.TP
\f[CR]4\f[R]
General error
.TP
\f[CR]5\f[R]
Subprocess error
.TP
\f[CR]7\f[R]
Crashed (unhandled exception)
.TP
\f[CR]10\f[R]
File not found
